feat: Renku 2.0 blog post (#45)
SwissDataScienceCenter/renku-blog: blog/2024-03-22-renku-2-0/index.mdx

to work. Beyond the current capabilities that Renku already offers, you can
levereage the flexibility of Renku 2.0 in multiple situations, for example:

- If you are testing out RenkuLab... and you want to bring your **existing GitHub repo** into a project and start a compute session from **the docker image you have already defined**.
- If you are starting a new project... and you want to **initialize a git repository** and **start out with a basic compute environment**. Later, you will decide what data and storage you need.
- If you find an interesting dataset... and you want to **test it out in a live compute environment** so you can decide quickly if you want to move forward with it.
- If you are working on a project that uses **multiple repositories** from multiple collaborators... and you want to use all of them in 1 Renku project together.
- If you need to showcase my project... and you want to create a **dashboard that uses a different environment configuration than the development environment**.

A “Renku project” is where data science work gets done. For this, a few ingredients are required, nammely:

- Data
- Code
- Compute Environment

> Renku’s role is about making it easy for researchers to **mix and match** the elements they need to get their work done. In addition, Renku makes these elements **searchable**, encourages their **reuse** between projects, and **illuminates connections** between them (even across Projects) wherever needed. Renku accomplishes this by extracting and indexing useful metadata about each of those elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renku’s role is about making it easy for researchers to **mix and match** the elements they need to get their work done. In addition, Renku makes these elements **searchable**, encourages their **reuse** between projects, and **illuminates connections** between them (even across projects) wherever needed. Renku accomplishes this by extracting and indexing useful metadata about each of those elements.
```

### Data

Data science projects need data! Users can connect different types of cloud data

> sources to their projects, like S3 buckets. Depending on the nature of the
> storage, they may be used in read-only or in read-write mode. However, projects

Reviewer: I think the read/write functionality is an unnecessary level of detail for this post. 
```suggestion
sources to their projects, such as S3 buckets and WebDAV resources. Projects
```

storage for more efficient processing. Data sources can be shared among
individuals, groups or communities to simplify reuse. The access to external
data sources is controlled by the 3rd party cloud storage provider.

### Code

In Renku 2.0, users can bring git repositories into their project not only from
the connected Renku-managed GitLab instance, but also from external GitLab
instances and GitHub! We encourage everyone to version their code, but if
the project does not require versioning (yet), you are not obligated to use it,
and you can start a Renku project with no code repository at all!

### Compute Environment

Renku 2.0 will continue offering the possibility to work in the cloud, where all
project resources are available for all collaborators. For quick, uncomplicated
data explorations, users will be able to start immediately from pre-configured
images, loaded with some standard libraries depending on the desired programming
language. In addition, users will be able to define their own environments to
use in compute sessions; these can be annotated and shared so members of a
community can benefit from each other’s efforts and use a consistent software

> stack. Furthermore, we plan to allow users to connect their Renku projects to to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stack. Furthermore, we plan to allow users to connect their Renku projects to
```

external compute resources (e.g. HPC or other cloud compute).

## UX Research

As we develop this new iteration of Renku, we rely on great feedback from our users
to make sure that we stay on the right track. If you are interested in having a say
how the project develops and contribute your thoughts to features that are in the pipeline,
please [drop us an email](mailto:hello@renku.io)!

## Further information

Are you interested in learning more about Renku 2.0? If so, have a look at the following resources:

> - Watch our [Renku 2.0 webinar](https://youtu.be/6J0INjPFQd4)
> - Check out the [roadmap](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1empUHHTonffW1fhdB_3DCIH-yVUz3MU8/view?usp=share_link)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Watch our [Renku 2.0 webinar](https://youtu.be/6J0INjPFQd4) or view the [slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1empUHHTonffW1fhdB_3DCIH-yVUz3MU8/view?usp=share_link)
- Check out the [Renku roadmap](https://github.com/SwissDataScienceCenter/renku-design-docs/blob/main/roadmap.md)
```

> - Check out the [roadmap](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-W56dVgsR2yzrq2slA1EIyVso10jlkSazce4xOOKIZE/edit?usp=sharing)

Reviewer: I would rather link to the public roadmap in the design docs
```suggestion
- Check out our [roadmap](https://github.com/SwissDataScienceCenter/renku-design-docs/blob/main/roadmap.md)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Give feedback on our [design docs](https://github.com/SwissDataScienceCenter/renku-design-docs/tree/main)

```
